Advanced MFW computation revamped (#222)
supaero-aircraft-design/FAST-GA: docs/documentation/models/geometry/wing_tank_model.rst

######################
Wing tank volume model
######################

There are several models implemented for the computation of the volume of the tanks inside the wings of the aircraft.

.. contents::

.. _simple-model:

*****************
Simple tank model
*****************

The simple tank volume model is based on the assumption that the tank is a parallelepiped.

> The base of the tank is computed by making the assumptions that it stretches from the fuselage centerline to the wing span and that it is located between the 1st and 3rd stringer (respectively located at 30% and 60% of the chord).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base of the tank is computed by making the assumptions that it stretches from the fuselage centerline to the wing tip and that it is located between the 1st and 3rd stringer (respectively located at 30% and 60% of the chord). Hence, the base surface area of the tank is 30% of the wing surface area.
```

The height of the tank is computed using an average wing thickness obtained based on the thickness at the tip and root as well as a penalty factor which results in the following formula :

.. math::
    t_{avg} = 0.7 * \frac{c_{tip} * \left( t/c \right)_{tip} + c_{root} * \left( t/c \right)_{root}}{2}

The volume is then computed with:

.. math::
    \text{MFV} = 0.3 * S_{w} * t_{avg}

Finally the Maximum Fuel Weight (MFW) is computed based on the density of the fuel (which can be either Jet A1 or AvGas).

> This model is the one activated by default.

Reviewer: Now that I am thinking about it; would it be of interest to give an indication of the model behaviour based on your experience with it? For example, this model usually tends to overestimate the MFW?

Author: I don't think I'd be able to say if each models overestimate or underestimate 😅

.. _advanced_model

*******************
Advanced tank model
*******************

This model is based on the model presented in :cite:`jenkinson:2003` on page 65.

> The wing tank is discretized into sections. The start and end of the tank are defined by a ratio of the wing half-span left as an user input. The areas of the tank cross-sections are then computed at a given number of stations in the spanwise direction and finally integrated to give the tank volume. A top view of the tank is shown in Figure `1`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wing tank is discretized into sections. The start and end of the tank are defined by a ratio of the wing half-span and are left as an user input. The areas of the tank cross-sections are then computed at a given number of stations in the spanwise direction and finally integrated to give the tank volume. A top view of the tank is shown in Figure `1`_ .
```

.. image:: ../../../img/wing_tank_model_graph.svg
  :width: 600
  :name: 1

> The width of each section is based on the wing chord minus some space at the leading edge and the trailing edge, highlighted in red in Figures `1`_ and `2`_. The distance between the wing leading edge and the leading edge of the tank is defined by a ratio of the chord (assumed constant at all stations) which is left as a user input. The distance between the trailing edge of the wing and that of the tank is computed accounting for the flaps and the aileron as well as an added margin. The lengths of the flaps and ailerons are computed based on a ratio of the chord also assumed constant regardless of the span. This is illustrated in Figures `1`_ and `2`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The width of each section is based on the wing chord minus some space at the leading edge and the trailing edge, highlighted in red in Figures `1`_ and `2`_. The distance between the wing leading edge and the leading edge of the tank is defined by a ratio of the chord (assumed constant at all stations) which is left as a user input. The distance between the trailing edge of the wing and that of the tank is computed accounting for the flaps and the aileron (whichever has the largest chord ratio) as well as an added margin. The width of the flaps and ailerons are computed based on a ratio of the chord also assumed constant regardless of the span. This is illustrated in Figures `1`_ and `2`_.
```

Reviewer: I suggest "width of the flap" instead of "length", to remain consistent with the mentioned "width of each section", where width refers to the chordwise direction. "Length" would rather refer to the spanwise direction.

Author: I agree, rephrased in e124776. Although I wonder if we should be even more specific and say _the chordwise direction_ or _the spanwise direction_. It might make it too heavy though

The height of each section is computed based on the thickness of the wing which is obtained by multiplying the chord with the relative thickness of the airfoil. The tank height is then obtained by multiplying that with a penalty coefficient to account for the depth of the tank. This can be seen in Figure `2`_ which illustrates a cross section of the wing.

.. image:: ../../../img/wing_tank_model_graph_airfoil.svg
  :width: 800
  :name: 2

> Additionally, the influence of the landing gears and engines on the available volume are accounted for. In this model it is represented as a reduced capacity of the tank for stations where there is also the nacelle of the engine or the housing of the landing gear. This is illustrated in Figure `3`_.

Reviewer: If I were a user, I would have two questions:

1. Where could I find the formula for the tank height penalty factor?
2. What controls the size of the boxes for landing gear and nacelle?

This is maybe too much of details for this documentation but maybe the answer is in Jenkinson's book, hence just mentioning the reference again for complementary details here would be nice.

Author: I added a few line to answer the questions of the user
1. It is an user input
2. It is based on geometrical considerations which don't come from Jenkinson book. Actually if we wanted to add a reference to explain that, it should be a reference to article of our documentation on how we compute those (but they don't exist currently)

Reviewer: Thanks that makes it clear!
